What is web scraping?
When a program or script pretends to be a browser and retrieves web pages, looks at those web pages, extracts
information and then looks at more web pages.

#Web Crawling / Spidering the web
Search engines like (google/bing) scrape web pages.
We call this ''Spidering the web" or "web crawling".


#Why Beautifulsoup? What is it?

#The problem of HTML files:
So the biggest problem in spidering is the parsing of the HTML that comes back.
HTML is a nasty little representation and it turns out that when your browser retrieves HTML it goes through
a whole bunch of things that effectively forgives syntax errors in HTML.
Because they figured ah, we'll just show it.
Why tell people about each syntax error?
So it turns out that there is lots of HTML on the web that has syntax errors in it but you don't even notice it. 

We could do regular expressions, find(), split(), and we would find quickly it'll work for the first two pages but 
the third through the thousandth page blows up because.
"I didn't realize that's what the href,"
"I didn't realize you could put a newline there."
"Who would have put a newline there, why would they do that, and then you fix that."

NOTE: And you realize after you try to fix this and you try to parse all the links that
there is just so many variations and someone has already done that.

#How to tackle this problem?
And it's a library called BeautifulSoup from a place called crummy.com
I think the naming of this is all sort of this tongue in cheek of what
a mess HTML is.
And so instead of calling it HTML super parser, they just call it something silly
because it's kind of a silly problem because HTML on the web is just so bad. 


#How does Beautiful soup work
BeautifulSoup is smart enough to convert all this stuff so it just takes the whole file and uses this HTML parser.
There's some other options that you could have here, but that's the one that I recommend in this case.
And then you get back an object. And what happens is, in this soup variable,
it's somehow taken all the nasty bits that come from the web page
and cleaned them up, and made a little pretty tree of things.
You don't have to worry about the internal structure, it is a soup object.
